1. Professional Handwritten Note Transcriber
How many times have you had to manually transcribe your handwritten notes to the computer?

GPT-4o can be your professional transcriber. I love this use case because now, I can transcribe my handwritten notes to the computer simply by taking a photo and asking ChatGPT to transcribe it.

GPT-4o can also transcribe text from books, documents, or even PDFs. This is very useful as it allows you to quickly extract text from various sources, saving time and effort that would otherwise be spent on manual data entry.

2. Your Color Matching Consultant
GPT-4o is a super accurate eyedropper. If you want to know the exact color of anything, you can simply ask our AI tool, GPT-4o.

It will tell you the exact Pantone or HEX color so that you can have it as a reference.

3. Nutrition Advisor
Are you tracking your food macros? Do you know the exact nutritional profile of your meal?

For a long time, I didn’t track my food macros. Nor did I know the exact nutritional profile of each meal. But when I started using GPT-4o, I learned that just taking a photo of my dinner plate can provide an accurate nutritional profile, including calories, protein, fat, carbohydrates, and even vitamins and minerals.

Note, however, that AIs are still quite biased, so if you really want legitimate nutritional advice, the best thing to do is to do your own research or consult a nutritionist.

4. Complex Concept Clarification Specialist
This is one of my favorite GPT-4o use cases. If you have a complex chart or diagram, you can ask GPT-4o to explain it in a simple manner.

When I see something complex, like a diagram or a chart for which I would like to have a detailed explanation, I simply ask GPT-4o to break it down for me in easy-to-understand terms. I sometimes prompt, “Explain it to me as if I’m 10 years old.” :)

This saves you tons of time by providing a direct, simple answer, rather than having to Google search and open different websites until you find what you need.

If you are a student or academic, GPT-4o can also be a great tutor, explaining complex concepts in detail.

5 . Book Guru
A couple of weeks ago, I went to the library, and a book caught my eye. What exactly is this book about? Is it worth reading? I asked ChatGPT and got quite a clear answer.

GPT-4o can give you the answer! Ask the AI to give you a digest of the book or feedback on the book recommendations, and you will instantly get an idea of what the book is about.

6. Your Translation Master
Whenever you are in a new country, you need an app to help you translate things, right? It could be a label, a restaurant menu, a banner, or a sign.

GPT-4o can now be the all-in-one app that will happily assist you in translating anything into your native language.

This AI tool is not only a great translator, but it also has great vision capabilities.

7. Navigation Expert and Route Planner
Are you lost? Need directions? If you are like me, then you do need tons of directions all the time!

Why not ask GPT-4o?

We already have Google Maps, but GPT-4o is also becoming quite proficient with directions. Simply take a photo and ask how to get from that location to your destination!

This exemplifies how great the AI assistant will deal with visual inputs.

GPT-4o may struggle with providing accurate, real-time navigation guidance, especially in areas with complex road conditions. Additionally, AI will have no idea about real-time traffic.

8. Car Model Expert
Are you a car fan and want to learn more about a car that you just saw on the street? Great, GPT-4o is also a car fan!

GPT-4o has extensive knowledge about cars. You can ask about the model, features, price, top speed, type of engine, and more.

9. Cultural Navigator
You are touring a new city and see something interesting. Naturally, you want to learn more about it and the local culture, so you ask your AI guide, GPT-4o.

10. Biology Tutor
What plant is this? What animal is that? What insect species is this one? I have all these questions all the time whenever I go hiking in nature.

If you’re hiking or just curious, you can show ChatGPT a picture of a plant, animal, or insect, and AI ​​will give you a good explanation.