1st Prompt:
For Generating Outline

You are a master in YouTube Script Writing and Information Delivering without making a viewer feel bored. I am working on a YouTube Script for a Video [Title]. I need a complete skeleton structure for it with all the points included, don’t miss any. In the skeleton structure, each point should include What should be Included in this point, What does the Viewer expect from this point (not in terms of feelings, in terms of information included and presentation) and How should this information be presented in a flow. Don’t forget to include examples of each point that give me an idea on how to write the script myself. I’m writing this script in a human conversational tone so keep that in mind while writing your examples. If there is any need of providing any reference, study results, mechanism, science backed techniques, facts or anything for any point in any part of the script to make it more informative, mention that in that particular point not at the end. Now using all your expertise write me a skeleton structure with every point included and some examples for each of them.

For Intro

Now, I need you to write an Intro for this video that works as a hype man for it. It should follow this framework. Hook, Shock, Validate and Tease. Don’t mention these as headings in the intro. I need it to be extremely persuasive and well written in a conversational tone, just like we’re talking to a friend and hyping him up for something. I need it to be extremely natural and simply written just to generate curiosity out of the viewer. It’s only job is to get people invested into watching the rest of the video, so focus on that. Act as a Copywriter while writing this intro. Take inspiration from the above skeleton structure and write me an attention hacking intro for my video. Write it in a narration format.

For Writing (Point by Point)

Start writing the Body of this Script. It needs to be descriptive and well explained. For Now I just need you to write the [copy and paste the 1st point from the outline] point in complete detail following the skeleton structure from above

Repeat the process for all the points and you’ll have a viral script in no time.

You can use it without any edits but I’ll recommend reading it and changing a few words here and there, fixing any bad transitions in between points and overall just making it your rather than AI’s. Also validate any points or facts it mentions.

2nd Prompt:
Here is another prompt that you can try out to generate scripts in one click.

You are now a Professional YouTube Script Writer. I’m working on this YouTube Video [Paste Title] and I need you to write a 2000 word long YouTube script.

Here is the formula you’re going to follow:

You need to follow a formula that goes like this: Hook (3–15 seconds) > Intro (15–30 seconds) > Body/Explanation > Introduce a Problem/Challenge > Exploration/Development > Climax/Key Moment > Conclusion/Summary > Call to Action (10 seconds max)

Here are some Instructions I need you to Keep in mind while writing this script:

Hook (That is Catchy and makes people invested into the video, maxi 2 lines long)
Intro (This should provide content about the video and should give viewers a clear reason of what’s inside the video and sets up an open loop)
Body (This part of the script is the bulk of the script and this is where all the information is delivered, use storytelling techniques to write this part and make sure this is as informative as possible, don’t de-track from the topic. I need this section to have everything a reader needs to know from this topic)
Call to Action (1–2 lines max to get people to watch the next video popping on the screen)
Here are some more points to keep in mind while writing this script:

Hook needs to be strong and to the point to grab someone’s attention right away and open information gaps to make them want to keep watching. Don’t start a video with ‘welcome’ because that’s not intriguing. Open loops and information gaps to keep the viewer craving more. Make the script very descriptive.

In terms of the Hook:

Never Start the Script Like This: “Hi guys, welcome to the channel, my name’s…” So, here are three types of hooks you can use instead, with examples.

#1: The direct hook

Use this to draw out a specific type of person or problem.
Don’t say “Are you a person who needs help?” — Say “Are you a business owner who needs help signing more clients?”
#2: The controversy hook

Say something that stirs up an emotional response, but make sure you back it up after.
Don’t say “Here’s why exercise is good for you” — but say “Here’s what they don’t tell you about exercise.”
#3: The negative hook

Humans are drawn to negativity, so play into that.
Don’t say “Here’s how you should start your videos.” — but say “ Never start your videos like this. “
The CTA in the end should be less than 1 sentence to maximize watch time and view duration. CTA is either to subscribe to the channel or watch the next video. No more than one CTA.
I need this written in a human tone. Humans have fun when they write — robots don’t. Chat GPT, engagement is the highest priority. Be conversational, empathetic, and occasionally humorous. Use idioms, metaphors, anecdotes, and natural dialogue. Avoid generic phrases. Avoid phrases like ‘welcome back’, ‘folks’, ‘fellow’, ‘embarking’, ‘enchanting’, etc. Avoid any complex words that a basic, non-native English speaker would have a hard time understanding. Use words that even someone that’s under 12 years old can understand. Talk as someone would talk in real life.

Write in a simple, plain style as if you were talking to someone on the street — just like YouTubers do — without sound professional or fake. Include all the relevant information, studies, stats, data or anything wherever needed to make the script even more informative.

Don’t use stage directions or action cues, I just need a script that I can copy and paste.

Don’t add any headings like intro, hook or anything like that or parenthesis, only keep the headings of the script.

Now, keeping all of these instructions in mind, write me the entire 2000 word script and don’t try to scam me, I will check it.

OUTPUT: Markdown format with #Headings, #H2, #H3, bullet points-sub-bullet points.